docs/README.md, before:

1. Quickstart
2. Big picture
3. Role overview
4. Local role overview



1. Quickstart
-------------

* DO NOT ADD PASSWORDS, PRIVATE PRODUCTION KEYS OR OTHER STRONGLY
  SENSITIVE DATA TO THIS REPOSITORY!
  (see `passwords.md`)
* DEPLOYING CONFIG CHANGES CAUSES AUTOMATED SERVICE RESTARTS!
  (see `hacking.md`)
* If you commit something, deploy it
  (see `hacking.md`)
* Install Ansible on your local machine (E.g.: `apt-get install ansible`)
* If your LDAP user name differs from your current user name on your
  current host, of if you do not have your LDAP ssh key in the default
  place:
    - Copy common.inc.local.example to common.inc.local
    - Edit common.inc.local to reflect your LDAP user name and ssh
      key.
* Either
   - Run `mkdir private-production`, or
   - Get a clone of the private password repository.
* ./ansible-playbook.sh --become -i production site.yml --tags TAG_YOU_WANT_TO_DEPLOY

If TAG_YOU_WANT_TO_DEPLOY is a tag that only affects client
configuration, the above should be sufficient. If you want to deploy
server configuration, you also need the private password repository
(See `passwords.md`)

If you want to limit the deploy to certain hosts add `--limit
host.domain.org` to the above command.

So for example if you only want to deploy only the tasks tagged as
`red` to `redp02.domain.org`, you can run:

```
./ansible-playbook.sh --become -i production site.yml --limit redp02.domain.org --tags red
```


2. Big picture
--------------

In our Ansible setup, tasks (E.g.: Installing a package, or copying a
file) are collected in roles (E.g.: Setting up a web server). Roles
are collected in rolebooks (E.g.: Cascade, or Conifer). All rolebooks
are collected in the main entry point `site.yml`.

We always run Ansible against the main `site.yml` file.
So fore example:

```
./ansible-playbook.sh --become -i production site.yml
```

would redeploy everything.

To run only a given role, we still use the main `site.yml` and
restrict needed tasks by using tags. For example

```
./ansible-playbook.sh --become -i production site.yml --tags icinga
```

would only run the tasks that are specific to icinga.

To only run against some hosts, one can use groups (defined in the
`production` file in the root of your checkout) like

```
./ansible-playbook.sh --become -i production --limit appFoos --tags icinga
```

to only run the icinga tasks for the hosts running a AppFoo. One can
also limit to a single host, like

```
./ansible-playbook.sh --become -i production --limit app-foo-01.domain.org --tags icinga
```

to only run the icinga tasks for `app-foo-01.domain.org`.

The main entry point `site.yml` is in your checkout's root directory.
Rolebooks are in the `rolebooks` directory.
Role definitions are in the `roles` directory.
For each role, the corresponding tasks are in the `tasks` subdirectory
of a given role.

To get you set up with a development environment, see
`development.md`.

Before hacking away, see `hacking.md` for common conventions and
agreements.



3. Role overview
----------------

* Roles:
  - `apache-webserver`: Configures an apache webserver with only the
    default page.
  - `apache-website`: Configures an apache site (along with
    provisioning apache itself).
  - `apache-website-default`: Configures apache's default website.
  - `atop`: Collects profiling data about processes
  - `add-host-to-group`: Dynamically adds a host to a group in Ansible.
  - `common-directories`: Sets up common directories needed on all hosts.
  - `common-role-tasks-start`: Runs common role start tasks
  - `common-role-tasks-package-install`: Runs common role tasks for installing
    packages
  - `common-role-tasks-end`: Runs common role end tasks
  - `common-packages`: Sets up common packages needed on all hosts.
  - `cpu-tuner`: Adjusts settings of CPUs.
  - `debug`: Allows to prints debug messages between roles in `meta`
  - `dhparams`: Handles files holding Diffie Hellman parameters for secure
    handshakes. This is needed for applications doing encryption (Websites,
    LDAP, ...)
  - `diamond`: Handles the diamond application, which collects
    system/application metrics and sends them to graphite.
  - `diamond-late`: Handles collectors that should get set up past expanding
    globals.
  - `disk-tuner`: Adjusts settings of disks.
  - `expand-globals`: Normalizes globals and fills in defaults for easier
    consumption in subsequent roles.
  - `smtp-server`: Sets up an SMTP server.
  - `emergency-user`: Sets up a local user that allows login even if
  - `fail`: Fails a playbook. This can be used to fail early in `meta` parts.
  - `firewall-early`: Sets up a basic firewall to be used while setting up the
    host
  - `firewall-late`: Sets up the system's firewall
  - `grafana`: Sets up a Grafana server to dashboard metrics.
  - `grafana-dashboards`: Renders configured dashboards for Grafana.
  - `graphite`: Sets up a Graphite/Carbon server as metrics host.
  - `gnupg-public-key`: Installs a GnuPG public key.
  - `hostnames`: Sets up host identifications.
  - `hp-printer`: Configures an HP printer.
  - `icinga-client`: Main part of host configuration for Icinga monitoring.
  - `icinga-client-late`: Late part of host configuration for Icinga monitoring.
  - `icinga-server`: Sets up an Icinga server.
  - `install-packages`: Install packages. This is useful to install
    packages before role dependencies get executed.
  - `ldap-client-early`: Early part of LDAP client configuration.
  - `ldap-client-late`: Late part of LDAP client configuration.
  - `ldap-server`: Sets up an LDAP server.
  - `libraries-biblioweb-at`: Integrates data from Bibilioweb.at libraries
  - `libraries`: Integrates library data with deployed services.
  - `locale`: Sets up locales.
  - `motd`: Sets up motd (message of the day) files shown after login. This is
  - `name-service-switch`: Configures name service switching
  - `network-tuner`: Adjusts settings of network interfaces.
  - `pass`: A playbook that does nothing. This is useful when using
    conditionals for role names and needing to "do nothing" in certain
    cases.
  - `phones`: Integrates phone data with deployed services.
  - `phones-hot-at`: Integrates data from hot.at phones.
  - `pop3-server`: Sets up a POP3 server.
  - `remote-apt-repository`: Configures APT to also use a remote repository.
  - `ssh-client-expect-authorized-key`: Configures expected authorized
    keys for ssh clients.
  - `ssh-connections`: Configures user configurations for public key access.
  - `ssh-server`: Sets up an SSH server
  - `static-website`: Deploys a static HTML site from an artifact url
  - `time`: Takes care about time settings.
  - `unmanaged-host`: Common tasks for unmanaged hosts.
  - `vpn`: Sets up the server's VPN connections
  - `website-common`: Common tasks for websites for different webservers.
  - `x509-cert`: Installs an X.509 certificate
  - `zte-modem-metric-fetcher`: fetches metrics from ZTE modems



4. Local role overview
----------------------

(Use this section to add a short summary for roles that are local to
your local repo.)

* Local roles:
  - `local-role1`: description of role
  - `local-role2`: description of role
  - `local-role3`: description of role
  - ...

Commit message:

monitoring: Monitor full paths of commands
Icinga only allows to check the command basename. We switch to
monitoring the full command name to better detect if unexpected
programs run.

docs/README.md, after:

1. Quickstart
2. Big picture
3. Role overview
4. Local role overview



1. Quickstart
-------------

* DO NOT ADD PASSWORDS, PRIVATE PRODUCTION KEYS OR OTHER STRONGLY
  SENSITIVE DATA TO THIS REPOSITORY!
  (see `passwords.md`)
* DEPLOYING CONFIG CHANGES CAUSES AUTOMATED SERVICE RESTARTS!
  (see `hacking.md`)
* If you commit something, deploy it
  (see `hacking.md`)
* Install Ansible on your local machine (E.g.: `apt-get install ansible`)
* If your LDAP user name differs from your current user name on your
  current host, of if you do not have your LDAP ssh key in the default
  place:
    - Copy common.inc.local.example to common.inc.local
    - Edit common.inc.local to reflect your LDAP user name and ssh
      key.
* Either
   - Run `mkdir private-production`, or
   - Get a clone of the private password repository.
* ./ansible-playbook.sh --become -i production site.yml --tags TAG_YOU_WANT_TO_DEPLOY

If TAG_YOU_WANT_TO_DEPLOY is a tag that only affects client
configuration, the above should be sufficient. If you want to deploy
server configuration, you also need the private password repository
(See `passwords.md`)

If you want to limit the deploy to certain hosts add `--limit
host.domain.org` to the above command.

So for example if you only want to deploy only the tasks tagged as
`red` to `redp02.domain.org`, you can run:

```
./ansible-playbook.sh --become -i production site.yml --limit redp02.domain.org --tags red
```


2. Big picture
--------------

In our Ansible setup, tasks (E.g.: Installing a package, or copying a
file) are collected in roles (E.g.: Setting up a web server). Roles
are collected in rolebooks (E.g.: Cascade, or Conifer). All rolebooks
are collected in the main entry point `site.yml`.

We always run Ansible against the main `site.yml` file.
So fore example:

```
./ansible-playbook.sh --become -i production site.yml
```

would redeploy everything.

To run only a given role, we still use the main `site.yml` and
restrict needed tasks by using tags. For example

```
./ansible-playbook.sh --become -i production site.yml --tags icinga
```

would only run the tasks that are specific to icinga.

To only run against some hosts, one can use groups (defined in the
`production` file in the root of your checkout) like

```
./ansible-playbook.sh --become -i production --limit appFoos --tags icinga
```

to only run the icinga tasks for the hosts running a AppFoo. One can
also limit to a single host, like

```
./ansible-playbook.sh --become -i production --limit app-foo-01.domain.org --tags icinga
```

to only run the icinga tasks for `app-foo-01.domain.org`.

The main entry point `site.yml` is in your checkout's root directory.
Rolebooks are in the `rolebooks` directory.
Role definitions are in the `roles` directory.
For each role, the corresponding tasks are in the `tasks` subdirectory
of a given role.

To get you set up with a development environment, see
`development.md`.

Before hacking away, see `hacking.md` for common conventions and
agreements.



3. Role overview
----------------

* Roles:
  - `apache-webserver`: Configures an apache webserver with only the
    default page.
  - `apache-website`: Configures an apache site (along with
    provisioning apache itself).
  - `apache-website-default`: Configures apache's default website.
  - `atop`: Collects profiling data about processes
  - `add-host-to-group`: Dynamically adds a host to a group in Ansible.
  - `common-directories`: Sets up common directories needed on all hosts.
  - `common-role-tasks-start`: Runs common role start tasks
  - `common-role-tasks-package-install`: Runs common role tasks for installing
    packages
  - `common-role-tasks-end`: Runs common role end tasks
  - `common-packages`: Sets up common packages needed on all hosts.
  - `cpu-tuner`: Adjusts settings of CPUs.
  - `debug`: Allows to prints debug messages between roles in `meta`
  - `dhparams`: Handles files holding Diffie Hellman parameters for secure
    handshakes. This is needed for applications doing encryption (Websites,
    LDAP, ...)
  - `diamond`: Handles the diamond application, which collects
    system/application metrics and sends them to graphite.
  - `diamond-late`: Handles collectors that should get set up past expanding
    globals.
  - `disk-tuner`: Adjusts settings of disks.
  - `expand-globals`: Normalizes globals and fills in defaults for easier
    consumption in subsequent roles.
  - `smtp-server`: Sets up an SMTP server.
  - `emergency-user`: Sets up a local user that allows login even if
  - `fail`: Fails a playbook. This can be used to fail early in `meta` parts.
  - `firewall-early`: Sets up a basic firewall to be used while setting up the
    host
  - `firewall-late`: Sets up the system's firewall
  - `grafana`: Sets up a Grafana server to dashboard metrics.
  - `grafana-dashboards`: Renders configured dashboards for Grafana.
  - `graphite`: Sets up a Graphite/Carbon server as metrics host.
  - `gnupg-public-key`: Installs a GnuPG public key.
  - `hostnames`: Sets up host identifications.
  - `hp-printer`: Configures an HP printer.
  - `icinga-client`: Main part of host configuration for Icinga monitoring.
  - `icinga-client-late`: Late part of host configuration for Icinga monitoring.
  - `icinga-server`: Sets up an Icinga server.
  - `install-packages`: Install packages. This is useful to install
    packages before role dependencies get executed.
  - `ldap-client-early`: Early part of LDAP client configuration.
  - `ldap-client-late`: Late part of LDAP client configuration.
  - `ldap-server`: Sets up an LDAP server.
  - `libraries-biblioweb-at`: Integrates data from Bibilioweb.at libraries
  - `libraries`: Integrates library data with deployed services.
  - `locale`: Sets up locales.
  - `motd`: Sets up motd (message of the day) files shown after login. This is
  - `name-service-switch`: Configures name service switching
  - `network-tuner`: Adjusts settings of network interfaces.
  - `pass`: A playbook that does nothing. This is useful when using
    conditionals for role names and needing to "do nothing" in certain
    cases.
  - `phones`: Integrates phone data with deployed services.
  - `phones-hot-at`: Integrates data from hot.at phones.
  - `pop3-server`: Sets up a POP3 server.
  - `remote-apt-repository`: Configures APT to also use a remote repository.
  - `shared-monitoring-scripts`: Monitoring scripts that can be used across
    different monitoring backends.
  - `ssh-client-expect-authorized-key`: Configures expected authorized
    keys for ssh clients.
  - `ssh-connections`: Configures user configurations for public key access.
  - `ssh-server`: Sets up an SSH server
  - `static-website`: Deploys a static HTML site from an artifact url
  - `time`: Takes care about time settings.
  - `unmanaged-host`: Common tasks for unmanaged hosts.
  - `vpn`: Sets up the server's VPN connections
  - `website-common`: Common tasks for websites for different webservers.
  - `x509-cert`: Installs an X.509 certificate
  - `zte-modem-metric-fetcher`: fetches metrics from ZTE modems



4. Local role overview
----------------------

(Use this section to add a short summary for roles that are local to
your local repo.)

* Local roles:
  - `local-role1`: description of role
  - `local-role2`: description of role
  - `local-role3`: description of role
  - ...
